"To use bacula you must install one of the flavors of director,
depending on your preferred database, onto a server, bacula-sd on the
machine to which you will back up, and bacula-fd on all machines from
which you wish to backup.  The installation will run the necessary
daemons automatically, but to get any backups working you must
customize the relevant configuration files in /etc/bacula as described
in the bacula manual.  Once you have edited the files you should issue
an appropriate /etc/init.d/bacula-xx force-reload [if order matters,
say how.  Maybe mention the bconsole reload commands.]

[Or maybe it's set up with some basic backup automatic?]

The installation will create a bacula user on the system, and the
daemons and RunBefore/RunAfter jobs will run as that user.  However,
the file director must run as root, as will your ClientRunBefore/After
jobs.  Installation of a director creates a bacula user in the
corresponding database.


You will also need to ensure that the machines can communicate using
tcp port xx.  bacula on Debian does not use tcpwrappers.

The installation sets up the following cron and logrotate jobs: ....
[or indicate which ones the administrator might want to setup.]

You can run bconsole as any user [I can't, but I think that's because
my tools have zapped the read world permission.]  To run
bacula-console-gnome you must specify the path to the configuration
file with bacula-console-gnome -c /etc/bacula/gnome-console.conf.
[Of course, it would be best to fix that with a wrapper so it will run
from the menu too, but that's a separate matter...]
"
